Let's add our controller to our application now,
and I'm going to do that by exiting our full-screen mode on
our console and stop our application.
And then I want to come over to our package and create a New,
Class, and the package is going to add controller onto the end of that.
And I'm going to call this the PersonController, and we'll click Finish.
And inside of here,
I have purposely typed this in rather than pasting it in
so that you can see that it is no different than creating
a standard Spring controller.
I'm going to annotate it as a RestController,
and I'm going to add a RequestMapping for all of the requests to a /person.
So just in a RESTful URL,
we want all requests for Person to go to this controller.
And then I'm going to add our JPA repository in here.
So I'm going to say @Autowired,
and we want the PersonRepository to be imported and
give it a name of repository.
We'll save this.
Now let's add our method to request a person by ID,
and we'll return that response as a stream.
I've already written this code,
so I'm going to paste this in here and import all of
the classes that it's looking for.
And you can see by this method, it responds to a GetMapping of id,
so the URL would be /person/id.
The ResponseBody is our Mono object so our stream that we're going to return.
And we're going to find by an ID.
This is going to go out to our repository, find a single record, return it.
It is using the new Java Optional object to wrap a Person object,
and then we can use the Mono.
just method to build that response as a stream.
So let's save this and start our server back up.
Now that this has loaded, I'm going to switch over to my browser.
And now that we're in the browser, you can see the URL of /person/1.
If we hit Enter on this, it will return that object that we created,
the id of 1, the name of bryan, and the mail of bryan@test.
com.
Alright, so it acts just like a standard web request does for any get.
That's true except for this is using streams.
And so if that query, for whatever reason,
took 10 seconds to return,
we wouldn't sit here with a blank page just spinning and waiting and waiting.
It would respond back when it finally built that object.
Let's look at that code again.
All we had to do was wrap that in a Mono object and use the
just method saying just return this object.
There are other options inside of here.
We could set delays or timeouts or what happens if there's an error,
but this shows you how simple it is to begin using
streams inside of your application.
As we mentioned in the previous demo when we were talking about Java,
also keep in mind the use of the Optional object from
the repository that we created.
This has nothing to do with streams and everything to do with
the now use of optionals in there because this query could
return an empty or null result, and that's wrapped in the Optional object.
So on line 28 when we say person.
orElse(person.
empty), that is saying return the Person object,
or if that's empty, give us a Other object back.
Now inside of our Person class, we created an empty method earlier.
In case you missed that,
you can see on line 11 here where we have the empty instance,
and I've created that down below where we just returned that empty instance.
It's a way for us to handle nulls the way that we want them to without a null
pointer exception being thrown inside of our application.
So really easy to return an object using a stream
inside of our controllers here.
Let's look at what it takes to do that when we want to return a collection of objects.